Unquenchable thirst for improvement A G BARR p l c. Annual Report and Accounts January 2017 A G BARR p l c. Annual Report and Accounts January 2017 improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement improvement Strategic Report Performance at a glance 01 Our business and brands 02 Chairman s Introduction 04 Business Model 06 Chief Executive s Review 08 Strategy 12 Key Performance Indicators 13 Strategy in Action 14 Financial Review 26 Risk management 31 Corporate Governance Board of Directors 36 Directors Report 38 Corporate Governance Report 43 Audit Committee Report 48 Directors Remuneration Report 51 Directors Statement 77 Accounts Independent Auditor s Report to the Members of A G BARR p l c. only 78 Consolidated Income Statement 81 Statement of Comprehensive Income 82 Statement of Changes in Equity 83 Statements of Financial Position 85 Cash Flow Statements 86 Notes to the Accounts 87 Review of Trading Results 129 Glossary 130 Notice of Annual General Meeting 133 Auditor s Statement of Circumstances 142 We are a growth driven branded consumer goods business delivering long term sustainable value. We build great tasting brands that people love o ering them choice and enjoyment. Unquenchable thirst for value value Unquenchable value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value value Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable Unquenchable 01 A G BARR p l c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance We have made considerable progress across the business over the last 12 months and delivered a solid financial performance in volatile and uncertain market conditions. Revenue 257 1m 0 6 Proﬁt before tax 43 1m 4 4 EBITDA margin 20 1 0 6 See page 14 for our Strategy in Action Strategic Report I am pleased to present A G BARR p l c s Annual Report for the year ended 28 January 2017. The report provides an overview of our business model and a comprehensive review of our strategy its execution our ﬁnancial performance and information on how we govern our business. We have made considerable progress across the business over the last 12 months and delivered a solid ﬁnancial performance in volatile and uncertain market conditions. We will continue to seek opportunities to grow our business and I believe we are well placed to continue to deliver consistent long term shareholder value. Roger White Chief Executive Net cash 9 7m Earnings per share 30 78p 3 9 Full year dividend per share 14 40p 8 0 Items marked with an asterisk are non GAAP measures. Deﬁnitions and relevant reconciliations are provided in the Glossary on pages 130 to 132. The term underlying has been used to improve comparability between the 52 week reporting period ended 28 January 2017 and the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2016. In the 53 week reporting period ended 30 January 2016 the Group received non recurring income associated to the termination of the Orangina franchise and incurred one oŽ transaction fees associated to corporate development activities including Funkin Limited. The underlying ﬁgures for the 53 week reporting period ended 30 January 2016 have been adjusted for the revenue and proﬁt associated to week 53 and the non recurring Orangina franchise and one oŽ corporate development transaction fees. The underlying ﬁgures for the period ended 28 January 2017 are the reported ﬁgures before exceptional items as disclosed in the consolidated income statement. 02 A G BARR p l c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Established over 140 years ago in Scotland we are a FTSE 250 business operating across the UK and with a growing international presence. Excellence in taste Our business and brands Rubicon Spring launched Bottles sold 7 6 million IRN BRU XTRA launched Equivalent number of cans sold 20 million Rubicon Light Fruity launched Sugar content reduced by 50 03 A G BARR p l c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance At our core we are a successful branded soft drinks business building a diverse and diŽerentiated portfolio of great tasting brands that people love. We make it our business to understand what our consumers want. Whether it s our iconic IRN BRU launched in 1901 and still going strong today our market leading RUBICON exotic fruit juice drinks or our pure clear Scottish spring water STRATHMORE our brands oŽer people a choice of great tasting products and bring exciting innovation to the market. Enhancing our portfolio we also operate long term successful partnerships complementing our own range of products with global brands ROCKSTAR and SNAPPLE in the UK and beyond. But we re not just about soft drinks with the addition of FUNKIN we have moved into the cocktail mixer segment broadening and strengthening our portfolio with a unique and exciting market leading brand in a growing market. Employing around 900 people across 10 UK locations we are proud to be a sustainable business that listens to our consumers builds lasting customer relationships takes care of our employees gives something back to our communities and works to minimise our environmental impact. OMJ launched Sales exceeded 1 million Funkin performing well Sales up 27 Snapple relaunch Sales up 20 04 A G BARR p l c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report A strong platform for the future The announcement of a soft drinks sugar tax in the Chancellor s budget in March 2016 and the devaluation of sterling following the UK s referendum vote to leave the European Union in June added additional external headwinds in a soft drinks market already impacted by price deﬂation. Despite these macro external inﬂuences the business has retained a clear focus on the execution of its strategy and in particular on internal improvement actions. Financially the business has delivered another 